[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations,"
broadcasting from the
Sounds True Wake Up Festival
in the beautiful
Rockies surrounding
Estes Park, Colorado.
So, when someone extends their
knowledge to help heal you,
you basically want to
spend the rest of your life
thanking them in
many, many ways.
And this is what
happened with my guest,
master healer, Robert Peng.
He was healed from a
childhood heart condition
when he was a little
boy, and a qigong master
taught him for the
following 13 years
how to use life force energy
to restore our inner power.
Welcome, Robert Peng.
Thank you for joining me.
>>ROBERT PENG: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: So, tell me a little
bit about your life growing up
and your heart condition,
what was that like?
>>PENG: I don't know what the
name of that condition is.
The symptom is that
it's severely painful.
Like if I cough, if I jump,
it is so painful that I cannot
breathe.
So, my mother brought me to the
doctor, and tried to heal it,
but it didn't work.
>>LISA: And how old were you?
>>PENG: I was 7, 8--
yeah, about 8 years old.
So, it's my second year
at the primary school.
It took a few months.
Then the doctor
couldn't help-- well,
the only thing he can suggest
is, well, maybe your son
needs to take a break, to rest
at home, not to run around.
OK, my mother took the
advice, then I stayed at home.
But when they went out to work,
and my brothers and sisters,
they went out, and all the other
neighbors, they're all gone,
I was by myself.
For two days, I'm OK,
but the third day,
I was so bored, so I sneak
out, just play on the ground.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: 'Cause our building is--
it stood near the countryside,
so there's a lot of
mountains, some wild grass.
I got a lot of
wild strawberries.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: It's not fun.
I watched more than
40 kinds of ants.
>>LISA: And this is where
you grew up in China?
>>PENG: Yes, how I
grew up in China, yeah.
Then, not far from my
home is a resort hotel.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: That
hotel-- in China, we
like to have walls-- so
it's surrounded by the wall,
and we, children, were not
allowed to get into it freely.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>PENG: So they had
the door keeper.
So normally-- not only when I
was at that time-- normally we
have a lot of kids in a
building-- and other buildings
too-- if we want to go
there, we climb over the wall
and jump into it.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>PENG: And we
have some fun time.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: But now, just me alone--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --I climb over the
wall, jump into it-- so painful,
I couldn't care because
I know how wonderful
it was afterwards. 'Cause
they have fruit trees.
They have swimming pool.
It is like a wonderland--
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>PENG: --compared to--
>>LISA: Where you lived?
>>PENG: --the other
side, outside.
Then, inside that
building-- that
resort-- there's a small
building is called boiler room.
>>LISA: The boiler room, OK.
>>PENG: Yeah, it's about
the same size as this room.
They have two huge furnaces.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Then they
have water tank,
then you have fire
to boil the water.
And that's how they supply the
hot water for all the guest
rooms.
>>LISA: The hotel, uh huh.
>>PENG: Yeah, for steam,
for the rice in the kitchen.
And so I went there--
we went there before--
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>PENG: --but this is
more so the other way.
But this time I went there,
the boiler room attendant
was there working.
So I was peeping from the door.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: And he saw me, and said,
you want to watch the fire?
I think I was not the only boy
who liked to peep, and-- fire.
Because when the flame
glows, blows that fire,
I can watch the fire for hours.
It's like meditation.
>>LISA: Oh, nice.
>>PENG: So, it was all fun.
Oh, yes, come in and watch it.
Don't get burnt.
OK.
So I watched the fire, of
course we chat a little bit.
Afterwards he said, feel
free to come, we have time.
Maybe I was joking,
'cause he didn't
know that I was school-free.
>>LISA: He didn't ask you
or anything, he just like--
>>PENG: I came every day.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: And actually,
after a couple of days,
he began to tell me stories.
He's a wonderful storyteller.
So later, I came here more for
the story than for the fire.
>>LISA: Stories
of his childhood?
>>PENG: Stories about anything.
Yeah, story about Monkey King.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Story about-- well, some of
his stories, he didn't tell
is his story.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Because he's
a Buddhist monk.
Yeah.
Well, he was my first master.
Actually, he my main master.
He was my healer.
>>LISA: Now, how did he discover
you had a heart condition,
and how did he heal that?
>>PENG: Well, when we chat--
he asked me why I was away,
then they told me I
have heart conditions.
He said, well-- he didn't
even tell me he treated me.
But two weeks later,
it disappeared
without my noticing,
because my mother
was so worried, she'd
say, how is that?
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: I don't know.
It's gone.
You're so used to the pain,
and when it disappears,
you forget it was there.
>>LISA: You're so
happy that it's gone.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Do remember him doing
anything specifically to you?
An energy work, or--
>>PENG: Well, he put
his hands on my chest--
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: --tap on my top head.
Well, now I know
what it means, yeah.
Because top head
and the perineum,
here, there's a channel
called central meridian.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So he'd tap it;
it's empowering the energy.
Here, it's more
concentrated over there.
That's the technique
I'm teaching now.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, he didn't tell me, yeah.
Well his power-- his like--
he looks so ordinary--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Like, middle-aged
person-- he was 80 already.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: He looked like
middle-aged person.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: And not muscular.
>>LISA: Working in
the boiler room.
>>PENG: Yeah.
And when he shoveled the
coal in, it is so graceful.
It's like dancing.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: And so, later, when
all of a sudden-- actually, two
or three weeks
later-- he said, do
you like to learn some Kung--
like, Kung Fu in China, we say,
wushu.
You like some wushu?
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yes, of course.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: I like wushu,
but nobody can teach me.
I'm going to teach you.
You can?
>>LISA: That's a
big honor, isn't it?
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: Well, I didn't
know at that time.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: I was just thinking
he's a boiler room attendant.
He's like hermit.
Nobody knew he was a senior
monk in the deep mountain
and a legendary healer.
>>LISA: Really?
>>PENG: Mastery of martial arts.
He can disable like, a wild bull
just with his bare hand, ka!
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: To freeze, yeah.
>>PENG: 'Cause later, I know
the story that the villages,
when I visit him--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --would tell, 'cause
the wild bulls, they get wild.
So he was asked to freeze
them, then heal the bull.
>>LISA: My goodness.
>>PENG: Yeah.
So he does-- he teaches me,
I say, oh, can you teach me?
Keep secret, keep discipline.
>>LISA: OK, so those were the
two rules you had to follow?
>>PENG: His two rules, yeah.
>>LISA: Keep it secret--
>>PENG: Yeah, because it's peak
time of cultural revolution.
>>LISA: OK, mhm.
>>PENG: At that time, the
religions were banned.
>>LISA: Mm.
Mm.
>>PENG: That's the reason he was
driven out of this monastery,
actually wandered around a river
to find a job in my hometown,
far away from his monastery.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah--
>>PENG: It is very
humble, low-pay job.
He has a million reason
to be angry and upset,
but you never see him
complain anything.
>>LISA: Because he was
driven out of his homeland.
>>PENG: Yes, he was
an orphan, so he
has no way to visit
his relatives.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: So that is his home.
His home is in the
boiler room, too.
In the corner is the mosquito
screen, that's where he stayed.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Yeah.
And so, when he said,
I will teach you,
and-- well, first of
all, what did your mother
say when your
condition was healed?
I mean, did she ask you where
you've been, or how you did it,
or, it was just--
>>PENG: Well, when I knew that
the pain is no more-- of course
we still don't know
it's healed already,
it's just, oh, maybe for this
moment, but it will come again.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So, it was
like a few months later
we know it's totally
healed, yeah.
But after a few weeks, I began
to practice on the ground.
I was so good to keep
secret, even from my parents.
>>LISA: And you left your house
at, what, 5:00 in the morning,
every morning, and--
>>PENG: That's right.
So my parents,
after a few weeks,
my mother was bit worried.
They said, what on earth are
you doing every morning--
>>LISA: Whare are you going?
>>PENG: --at 5 o'clock
in the morning,
and disappear for a few
hours, coming home hungry.
>>LISA: Heh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
As a little boy, you want
to be lazy in the bed.
So, I said, oh, I was jogging.
I have to lie at first,
because I want to keep secret.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: And then, I
told my master, I said,
well, my parents get concerned.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: He thought a
little while, said, ask
your parents come
to see me tonight.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Then I told-- I went
back home and told my parents,
and say-- well, at that time
his name is Tan, Master Tan--
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: --is his
name as a worker.
I said, Master Tan
wants to see you.
They were very confused,
why he wants to see us?
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: They know about him
as a boiler room attendant--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --because it's
so far, sometimes they
go there to get hot water.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah
>>LISA: The villagers?
>>PENG: Yeah.
And, I don't know,
they asked, just go.
So, my parents visited him, and
they were in the boiler room,
I was outside waiting.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: A couple of hours,
they got out, excited,
a little bit nervous.
They were like, keep
going on with Master Tan.
Keep going on with Master Tan.
We keep secret for you, too.
>>LISA: Whoa.
>>PENG: Because if we were
caught, he might get into jail.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: If we were
caught that we
practice the traditional things.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: Because we
have to burn incense,
which was not
allowed at that time.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Strange now.
We tell the young
people now in China,
they couldn't believe how
strict, how funny it was.
>>LISA: Yeah, I would
have never thought
of that, just burning incense.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: So he started to
impart his teachings on you,
but how did it start?
>>PENG: Well, the first-- well,
I started with martial art,
not healing arts yet.
So the martial arts, the
first thing he asked me to do
is Horse Stance.
Yeah, Horse Stance, like
you're riding horse,
then you bend the knees, upper
body straight, you hold arms.
If you try it, half a minute--
>>LISA: Your legs start to burn.
>>PENG: --your thighs,
they burn like charcoal.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Ah.
>>PENG: 20 minutes
I was [STRUGGLING]
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Sweat, cry, actually.
20 minutes, finished.
Tomorrow, every day, 20 minutes.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: I hated it at first.
Until, like a few weeks later,
one day I was standing there,
Horse Stance, expecting
horrible things,
tiring things to happen.
And all of a sudden,
I feel as if someone
is putting a chair
behind-- at my bottom.
So I was like sitting
on the chair--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: --without anything.
I was in a trance.
>>LISA: Oh!
>>PENG: When I
finished my trance,
my master was very happy.
He noticed that I
got over that horror.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: He said,
you did four hours.
>>LISA: Four hours?
>>PENG: Four hours.
>>LISA: In a Horse Stance?
>>PENG: Horse
Stance, no nothing--
like moving, or shaking--
just like standing there.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: So it was after
that that the kind of pain--
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: --and intimidations
is like chocolate for me--
the Horse Stance is my favorite.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: But there was
a point where you--
I don't know how this
happened-- where you agreed
to go into hibernation
for 100 days.
>>PENG: That was later.
>>LISA: Much later?
>>PENG: Much later.
That was when the cultural
revolution finished in 1976.
But three years
later, he was called
to go back to rebuild
the monastery.
So before that, we were
together like, every day.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Actually,
he's like my father.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: Because in the morning,
and in the evenings-- any time
I just sneak out,
practice, and he'd
tell stories-- we roast the
sweet potatoes, and the buns
in the fire.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
>>PENG: Yes, it is fun.
So, I was like leading two
lives, my life with him,
and the other life is my
school-- life in a school.
>>LISA: This is like a movie.
I mean, this is your life.
This is amazing.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: So, how many
years of your life
did you spend with
him as a child?
>>PENG: Well, '72 to--
he passed away '85.
So '72 since '79, we
were together almost
every time, every day.
Then after '79 he went back.
It is far, deep
in the mountains.
I have to take like
eight hours train--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Then two hours bus,
then hiking about five hours--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: --to the monastery.
It's like this deep,
like mountain--
>>LISA: Where he lived.
>>PENG: Yeah.
And so, it was after that--
because later-- well, I
want to cut story short-- I was
involved with a street fight.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Then I
was so regretting,
my master was so angry--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --then I didn't
like fight at all.
Because, at first, you
learn some martial arts--
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: --he told me how to
use the broomstick as a weapon.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: You go like this.
Bang, yeah.
>>LISA: Right.
>>PENG: Chopstick, you can stab.
So all these kind of things
in your daily life as weapon,
then you feel like to fight.
But once I got
involved with a fight,
I'm not-- I don't feel
the triumph at all.
Although I defeated
three of them,
but I don't feel-- I don't have
the sense of victory, you know.
Actually, at that time,
when I saw that guy,
I thought I killed him.
But later, I went
to hospital, he's
OK-- I was so frightened the
policemen would come and arrest
me, and kill me--
shot me-- when I
saw him, he was
so intimidated, so
frightened when I
entered the ward.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>PENG: And I said, well, that
is just like ordinary boy.
He's one years older than
I. Why-- at that moment
I was treating him like monster.
I was just, like, killing him.
So I was-- actually, it
is not happy thing at all.
>>LISA: You regretted it?
>>PENG: I regretted it.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: So my master, of
course, he watched all this,
the punishment was kneeling down
the washing board, you know,
washing board, with all that--
>>LISA: Punishment
for your regret, or--
>>PENG: No--
>>LISA: --punishment
for your street fight.
>>PENG: --for my street fight.
>>LISA: Oh, because
he didn't think you
should have engaged in
it in the first place.
>>PENG: Yeah, he said,
you lost emotion.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Which you're
not supposed to.
>>LISA: Mm, yes.
>>PENG: So, I have
to face the wall,
kneel down on the washing board.
The washing board,
they are not flat;
they have all that
zigzag angles--
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: --for two hours.
It was very painful.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Meditate, and--
>>LISA: To learn to
control your emotions?
>>PENG: To learn control, to
get the pain to your spirit.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Yeah, to know
how to control emotions.
And actually, it's a practice.
At that moment, he brought it as
a punishment, but it's process.
>>LISA: It's a deep practice.
>>PENG: Yeah, a deep practice.
And then--
>>LISA: All of these are such
a discipline, where you learn--
>>PENG: Dicipline, yeah.
>>LISA: And, in the
meantime, I guess
you're learning how to
harness your energy.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: How to use-- in every
single thing that he had to go
through, from the
Horse Stance to that--
>>PENG: Yes, this is
very strong discipline.
He built up your very
strong, internal power.
So a few days later, he
talked to me very seriously.
He said, well, for all
these years of practice,
you are building a lot
of internal energies.
You can use this for either way.
One, martial art--
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: --fighting, I
can teach you more forms.
I'm OK, yeah.
The very successful
one now is Jet Lee--
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>PENG: --who is so successful.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Actually,
when he was little,
he won a few
championships in China.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: That led him to the
movie of "Shaolin Temple."
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Then the other
track is more hermit-like.
You can use the same type
of energy to do the healing.
>>LISA: Hm.
>>PENG: I give you
two days to decide.
>>LISA: Oh!
>>PENG: He's very democratic--
>>LISA: Wow!
>>PENG: --at that time.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Two days to decide
which you want to do.
I'm all willing to guide you.
Well, for me, I say,
I don't want to wait.
I go the healing.
>>LISA: You decided instantly?
>>PENG: Oh yes.
I already regret,
so much, fighting.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: And also--
occasionally he
does the healing
for some neighbors--
I can see how
grateful people is.
>>LISA: Helpful, yes.
>>PENG: How beautiful it is.
Like, with the energy.
I admire it.
Well, occasionally he
asked me to assist.
He'd go, press this point.
Send the chi there.
So I like, sparely.
So now I say, I don't want to
wait, I want to do the healing.
He said, OK, good.
So he began to teach me
how to conduct energies,
and it's not too
far that he began
to go back to the monastery,
and I began to visit him.
Well, not every day now, maybe
twice a year, or once a year.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: It was over there he
began to conduct that 100 days
water fast for me.
>>LISA: And that was
a choice for you?
Did he give you
the option to do--
>>PENG: No options.
>>LISA: No option, OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, he knew-- because
normally, when I go there,
it's about a month's time,
because I have school.
But that was when I finished
my primary-- my junior high
school.
We have a long time,
nearly four months' break.
So as soon as I went there,
I was expecting, like before,
I have a lot of fun
time, leisure time.
He said, now is the
time you do Big One.
Big One is that special
name of 100 day water fast.
And then I said, whoa!
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: I know what it is,
he mentioned it before,
but I didn't--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --know he was
going to arrange that time.
Then it is at the
basement of the temple.
So we're winding the way
to that, we're going down,
and he--
>>LISA: Did you have
any days to decide this?
He just said, this
is what you're doing?
>>PENG: This is
what you're doing.
Go, tonight.
>>LISA: OK.
Tonight, OK.
>>PENG: So, he had a
candle, and we walk inside,
the there's a room there.
On the side is room for,
like, toilet things.
Cushion, and the altar,
then he burned the incense,
begin to guide me the
meditation and practice.
About an hour time,
ready, he left.
The only light I could see was
the-- like, the lit incense.
>>LISA: Oh, mm.
>>PENG: A few hours
later, it vanishes.
>>LISA: It's gone.
>>PENG: Pitch dark, yeah.
He came to visit me every day.
>>LISA: For an hour--
>>PENG: Yeah, for guiding--
>>LISA: --or so?
>>PENG: --me.
Well, each time he came, he
had incense lit already--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --coming in.
He's talking with the darkness,
with the little incense,
and all kinds of practices.
Yeah, all in the pitch dark.
Then he has three dates
that read [CHINESE SPOKEN]
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: The Chinese dates in
his hands for the first 20 days.
One date's for milk, there
are three dates a day.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: That's first 20 days.
After that it's just pure water.
>>LISA: Pure water.
>>PENG: Pure water.
>>LISA: What was your biggest
struggle in the beginning?
>>PENG: Well, a lot.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: Because this is
like a few lives experience.
We have the sense-- well first,
physically, we have each in us,
we have the pain, we
feel the coldness,
the heat-- every
meditation we go deep.
One of them, we call
it Devil, yeah--
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: --will come,
and you feel hot,
then burning hot until you
feel like you could burn.
Or cold, freezing cold, the
bones were like crinkling.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: The hardest one
for me is the itchiness,
you feel like millions of ants--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: --are biting on you.
But when you open your
eyes, they're disappeared.
>>LISA: They're not there.
>>PENG: But you have
to climb up again,
until you really go over that--
cross the mountain, Nirvana.
So beautiful you
don't want to return.
Because it is like every
hair was standing with joy.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah, it
feels so wonderful.
Yeah.
So, we are
experiencing physical,
all those things to the extreme.
So one is like a
lifetime experience.
>>LISA: Wow, so that's what
you mean by many lifetimes
you experienced in that.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Before that is the
fear, the loneliness.
So for the first, like,
months, it's quite struggling.
But because he comes
to see me every day,
that make it a lot easier.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: And you look forward
to that visit every day.
>>PENG: Oh, of course, yeah.
Then, 'cause there's special
practices, it's movement,
and some of them is
very special breathing.
And about 2/3 of the time, for
about eight days, my breathing
is getting so slow.
And normally we would do two
or three breathing a minute.
That might be one
breath an hour.
So you'd lose the--
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>PENG: If you feel the
breathing, I'm a dead person.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: So we called
it small death.
Small death.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: Well, it is very
critical at that moment,
you need a master that helps
to boost you to go through
the crisis--
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: --of, like, rebirth.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So a Small
Death, big life.
So, after that, your life
is so totally transformed
in a super-high
level-- spirituality,
you have physical power--
because at the end, when
I finished this-- you
know, 100 day, no food,
I was not losing
too much weight.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
>>PENG: Yeah, because
all this practice--
>>LISA: You maintained your--
>>PENG: --is keep the sustaining
of the nutrients, I don't know,
I cannot explain what it is.
>>LISA: Energy.
>>PENG: Yes, energy.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>PENG: And you feel like your
body's light, like a feather.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>PENG: But it's-- but
you're so powerful,
like fierce like tiger.
I grab things, and so tight.
When I get out,
the first thing I
want to run in the mountains,
just constantly, nonstop
for hours.
You feel so light and free.
>>LISA: But different.
>>PENG: Very different.
>>LISA: Very different.
>>PENG: Very different, yeah.
>>LISA: What an experience.
And what a transformational
experience.
And that the person that
you were before then
doesn't exist any longer?
>>PENG: No more, yeah.
>>LISA: No more.
>>PENG: It is total
different person.
You build things differently.
>>LISA: Did you
make a commitment,
in that time, to move forward
with your life as a healer,
to help people?
Did you make any
decisions at that time?
>>PENG: Yes.
Yeah, for sure.
But at that time,
I think my master,
he had a vision that I
might be here someday.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Me, I just feel like,
I want to do the healing.
Yeah, no matter where.
Because when I was a
senior high school,
he had a serious talk with me.
He said, well, all my
disciples are mountaineers.
They are not very well educated.
He said, I don't care what
education-- or what subject you
choose, science or social
science, but make sure
you go to have
university education,
and that high education.
Well, maybe don't
know the background.
At that time, going to
the university for us
is huge competition.
Yeah, every year have
3 million people,
only one exam paper
in the whole country.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: We go, July 7
some days, three days.
You do the exam.
You get enrolled,
you get enrolled.
No, you're not going
to the university.
Only like 7% is enrolled.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: So I said, OK
what am I going to do?
I love English.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: As soon as I learned
English in high school,
I loved English.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>PENG: So I said, maybe
I can major English
for my university.
And I pass the exam.
I enter the university.
I majored English
for four years.
Actually, in China,
you get Bachelor of Art
for English in
American Literature.
>>LISA: Oh really?
>>PENG: I'm embarrassed to say.
Yeah.
>>LISA: Interesting though.
>>PENG: But if that helped me--
>>LISA: That's what you studied.
>>PENG: Yeah, because
he has the vision.
>>LISA: Well, now
you write books,
which it helped a
lot for, of course.
>>PENG: Right.
>>LISA: You have many books.
Yeah.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Because he said, I have a
vision that things will go big.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: He didn't
tell me very clearly.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: But then, when I go
to university learning that,
it helped now.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: 'Cause imagine
if I cannot talk.
>>LISA: Articulate, yes.
>>PENG: Yeah, to teach.
>>LISA: The stories are-- I
mean, they're inside of you.
They deserve to be
taught, and talked about,
and I'm so glad that you're
able to do that-- especially
to impart upon
us, that's a gift.
Your stories are incredible.
And so many more
stories are in the book,
they're incredible stories.
It's a--
>>PENG: Oh, thank you.
I feel blessed, yeah, to
be able to beat my master.
Because it seems that his having
this mission of going down.
Well, it is tragedy for China to
have this cultural revolution--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: --but for that
part, it is a bless for me
that he can go down to
the mountain to meet me.
Otherwise I have no way--
>>LISA: You'd have
never met him.
>>PENG: --to have a chance to
meet him, and live with him,
and the guidance as
my mentor and master.
>>LISA: At what age did he pass?
>>PENG: He passed, I think
he was about 93 or 94.
I don't know.
We never know exact age.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: I only knew when
I went to the villages
near his monastery,
the villagers they
talk-- he didn't tell me.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: But I feel
he chose this.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: You know, he first--
>>LISA: He chose his passing?
>>PENG: Just less than a-- yeah.
Just less than a month
ago, I visited him.
He's totally fine;
he's not ill at all.
Then when I went back to
school, and started school,
I get telegram--
telegram, right?
Telegram.
And he passed away,
so I went back.
He sit cross-legged meditation,
and he's gone in that position.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: It was maybe his choice.
>>PENG: Just overnight.
Yeah.
>>LISA: Wow.
My goodness, perfectly healthy--
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: --just that
was his choice.
>>PENG: Mhm.
>>LISA: Amazing.
What an experience, and
so many more stories.
But what you now teach is
so practical for people
like-- ordinary people
to be able to learn
just a little bit of what
it is that you've mastered.
Your mastery of energy and how
you move energy is magnificent.
And you could actually
see it when you do it,
and we're going to get
an experience of that.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: But let's talk a little
bit about your teachings.
>>PENG: Mhm.
>>LISA: First of all
there's the three dantians?
>>PENG: Dantians, yeah.
>>LISA: OK, and those
are three energy centers
in the body, yes?
>>PENG: Right, right.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Well the dantian,
dan means elixir.
Tian means filled.
>>LISA: Fueled?
>>PENG: Elix-- filled.
Elixir filled.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Like--
>>LISA: Fill it up.
>>PENG: --a memory center, yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So basically,
we have one center here,
we call it upper dantian--
upper elixir filled.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Because my
qigong is called
elixir light--
elixir light qigong.
So when we practice,
we use a lot of light
and a lot of pearls, elixir.
So, the energy here, when
it's healthy and strong,
we are guided.
This is collections of wisdom.
>>LISA: I see.
>>PENG: Yeah, so upper
dantian is strong and healthy,
you make good decisions,
you make good choices.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: Yeah, you don't
have to be logical,
but you just instinctively--
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: --you are wise.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Then here, through the practice,
you empower the energy here.
When it is healthy
and it's strong,
you are a loving person, and
you feel loved well, too.
Because some people, they
project a lot of love.
>>LISA: Right
>>PENG: They don't feel loved.
This both sides.
The moment that you
project your love,
you feel the loving coming back.
So it's like you're
wearing the Buddha heart.
>>LISA: Oh, nice.
OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
But if it's weak there,
that Buddha heart
becomes a glass heart.
>>LISA: Right, easily broken.
>>PENG: Broken easily, yeah.
It was broken heart,
or stone heart.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: Stopping, and
always criticizing
yourself or others, yeah.
>>LISA: So it's important
to have the energy flowing.
>>PENG: Yeah, energy flow that
melts all that kind of tension
and ice away, then you
feel warm and home.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Then the other energy
center, we call it vitality.
Lower dantian is the
center of vitality.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: This gives you
the vitality and health.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Sexual
power, birth power,
they're concentrated here.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So when you're strong
here, you're charismatic,
you're very sexy.
Yeah, you have good figures.
>>LISA: Lots of vitality.
>>PENG: Yeah, like
vitality, like Juicy Fruit,
always jumping around.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: So, a little child,
they are like this, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Because they're born
with a lot of vitality chi,
because they associate
with the kidneys.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: So, they
don't feel tired.
When they feel
tired, they sleep--
>>LISA: Right.
>>PENG: --wake up again--
>>LISA: Same energy.
>>PENG: Yeah, the big energy.
So there's three dantains
of energy center.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: But if we just
practices this alone,
there's one problem,
it doesn't harmonize.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: If you, say for example,
if you are very developed here,
you can be very good--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: --successful
business, making good money.
But if here is
blocked-- no matter
how successful you
are-- you're depressed.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: You're not happy.
Yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: The other person
say, oh, why you not happy?
You have everything.
Yes, everything except
a good heart, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: So people are
developed in different areas?
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, that is central meridian.
That is fourth energy center,
we call it wheel of harmony.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: The center meridian
is the one, the top
here, like a channel of
energies cross over those three
dantians, shooting
up into the sky
and connecting with the Earth.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So you have the
expensive, inspiring energies
through the universe.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Because if you're
just using your own chi,
you'll get exhausted quickly.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Then the
Earth, she gives you
motherly and grounding energies.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So this kind of
energies involved hold together,
you are a happy person.
>>LISA: The three dantians?
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: And balanced.
>>LISA: We're going to take
a look at some of the videos
that Robert has done where he's
demonstrating qigong and some
of these dantians.
And this one here is
called "Four Wheels."
Take a look at this.
>>PENG (VOICEOVER): Now,
let's summarize all of this.
There are four energy
centers in our body.
The first one is
the upper dantian,
in the middle of your head,
which stores your wisdom chi.
It is associated with
your power to guide.
And the complex that
houses the upper dantian
is named The Wheel of Wisdom.
The second one is
the middle dantian,
in the middle of your chest,
which stores your love chi.
It is associated with
your power to love.
And the complex that
houses the middle dantian
is named The Wheel of Love.
The third one is
the lower dantian,
in the middle of your
lower abdomen, which
stores your vitality chi.
It is associated with
your power to manifest.
And the complex that
houses the low dantian
is named The Wheel of Vitality.
And the fourth one is
the central meridian
that runs through all
your three dantians
and connects you with
heaven chi and Earth's chi.
It is associated with
your power to harmonize.
And the central meridian is
also named The Wheel of Harmony.
Collectively, these
four energy complexes
are known as The
4 Golden Wheels.
When all four golden wheels
are running smoothly,
you are driving a super
powerful 4-wheel drive,
and you can draw on
abundant energetic resources
to overcome the bumps on the
road and lead a happy life.
Leading a happy life is the
goal of qigong practice.
And the way to
accomplish this objective
is to develop The
4 Golden Wheels.
As we become more
balanced and integrated,
so does the rest of our life.
>>LISA: So, now that we've
seen a little bit of that,
of the energy in
the video, let me
ask you, what is the master key?
What is it that you talk about
in your teaching of the master
key?
>>PENG: The master
key is the master key
for our dynamic happiness.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Well, I named
it dynamic happiness
because when we say
happiness, actually it's
more or less about joy.
Like you have a piece of
chocolate, you're happy, right?
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: You have a good
meal, you're happy.
>>LISA: Or beautiful
weather, yes.
>>PENG: Yeah, or
beautiful weather, yeah.
It's conditional, yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: But if you can have
the spirit of happiness inside
of you, it doesn't matter
how outside condition is,
you can adjust it in
a very efficient way.
Say, for example,
if I lose my job,
if I lose my family
member, for sure I am sad.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: I am depressed
for some time.
But if the spirit of
happiness is there,
they can resume very
quickly and efficiently.
How to do that?
That is the alignment of
the three energy center
through the central meridian.
Yeah.
>>LISA: So it's really
how to establish
your core of inner happiness?
>>PENG: Yes.
>>LISA: So that it's not
based on any conditions
outside of you.
You have it inside
of you all the time.
>>PENG: That's right.
Like my master, yeah.
It doesn't matter what
conditions, poor labor
job as a bar attendant,
high-ceiling monk,
he's as happy as--
it's the same.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Always.
>>PENG: Mm.
>>LISA: So let's,
if we can, can you
show us a little bit of
the energy techniques
that you teach on how
you master energy?
One of the ones that I
saw on one of the videos
is the-- I mean, what's
a-- the sword one,
is that a good one
that you want to teach?
>>PENG: Well, the sword finger
is more for the healing,
you're healing others.
>>LISA: Oh, great.
Let's learn, that'd be great.
>>PENG: Yeah, you're
healing others.
The sword finger is, well
if you put your finger--
both fingers straight--
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: --then the
other two finger bent,
and you use the thumbs to press.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Yeah, it looks like
a pistol, right?
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: A handle.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Actually it's like
the handle of the blade--
>>LISA: Of the sword.
>>PENG: --of the sword.
Then, what is the blade?
The blade is the
energy shooting out.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, when I'm
training people, I
ask them to use
the body breathing.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So you inhale, open
all the pores of your skin.
Now you collect the chi,
and when you exhale,
you shoot out from
your fingertips.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Let's try
for half a minute.
>>LISA: OK, you do it first.
>>PENG: Inhale, open all
the pores of your skin,
instead of nose-- besides nose.
Exhale, shoot out from
these two fingertips.
Inhale, open all the
pores of the skin.
Exhale, shoot out
from the fingertips.
Inhale, open the pores.
Exhale, shoot out.
You can feel it--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: --the pressure of it.
>>LISA: I'm actually getting out
of the way of yours, because--
>>PENG: No, that's
good for healing.
>>LISA: It's good
for healing, OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, in my book and my DVDs,
I show all different patterns
you can play.
You can imagine the
light of energy's
coming out from your
fingertips, like flashlight.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Well, you might
not feel something now,
but you can move that
light-- like the blade
of the sword-- cutting
through your palm.
And move away.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Now we begin
to feel that, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>PENG: Cutting
through, move away.
Or, you can like, dip--
like dip under water.
You feel the pulse on your palm?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Good
>>PENG: Draw the circle.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
Wonderful, yes.
>>PENG: Horizontal bar.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Verticle bar.
Well, what do we use this for?
>>LISA: Wonderful.
>>PENG: We have a health
issue, more locally.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Say you
have sore throat.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: And can I--
>>LISA: Yes, please.
>>PENG: --demonstrate on you?
Yeah.
So I'm going to
do-- use like knife.
I imagine that your issue is
like a chunk of blockages.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: So I cut it.
Vertical, horizontal,
cut it, cut it.
To make it so refined, refined.
>>LISA: To break it up.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Like it vaporizes, and equalize.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Then I'm going
to conduct it out
through your fingers.
Make it flow out.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Then I put some
palm chi to nourish here.
[CHINESE SPOKEN]
You'll recover.
You feel that?
>>LISA: Ah.
>>PENG: Mm.
>>LISA: That was amazing.
>>LISA: That was a-- what
was the chant that you did?
The words?
>>PENG: The [CHINESE SPOKEN]
is like a chanting
for the healing.
Like [CHINESE SPOKEN], relax.
[CHINESE SPOKEN], void,
[CHINESE SPOKEN], through.
So, I want to make
this place wide open
to allow the chi to flush in.
[CHINESE SPOKEN],
recover 100%, yeah.
>>LISA: Yes.
Wow, that was wonderful.
Thank you so much for
that, that was amazing.
Can we show a little bit of how
you get the energy in a ball--
>>PENG: Uh huh.
>>LISA: --so that
people can learn
how to harness this energy?
>>PENG: Sure.
Yeah, sure.
>>LISA: Oh, you're so fun.
>>PENG: You want to follow me?
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
Yes!
>>PENG: Yeah.
The energy ball is
like a mini universe.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: You play with that.
But it's the energy
in between your hands.
So first, you can
rub your hands.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Rub your hands.
Then you hold your hands
in front of your body.
Well, from the rubbing
you feel your hands--
>>LISA: Tingling, yeah.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Then you can move your hands
together, and move away.
Feel in-- like pressure in
between your hands, changing.
All right, put
your hands closer.
The other hand's close.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
You feel the pressure
moving your left hand away--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: --then left
hand coming back.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: And then push the other
hands away, because it waves.
>>LISA: It pushes it out--
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: --by itself, yes.
>>PENG: Right.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: You feel the pressure
change on your palm, right?
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
There's a few waves of this,
you make the connections
of the energy of your palm.
Then you put it aside.
Pay attention to the
middle of your palm.
Like there's a
tiny spot of light.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Then you pump the
energy in this little spot,
like bloom.
The more you pump, that
spot is getting bigger.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Bigger, bigger,
and bigger, and bigger,
until it is all the way
to reach to your palm.
Now you're holding
the ball now--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: --that is
the energy ball.
You can play this ball, like
feel the textures of this ball.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Squeeze it.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's--
>>PENG: Squeeze it, yeah.
It feel elastic, right?
>>LISA: It does, yeah.
>>PENG: Mhm.
Yeah, squeeze it.
You can move it in a circle.
You can move it close to your
third eyes, to your heart.
>>LISA: And this is energy?
>>PENG: Yeah, that is energy.
And there's a lot of
use for this chi ball--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: --because we
can do the hologram palm
with this chi ball.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>PENG: Yeah, chi power.
>>LISA: We're going to
take a look at that.
>>PENG: Yes.
>>LISA: Let's take a
look at that video.
It's the hologram palm video.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Take a look.
>>PENG: Hologram
palm empowerment
of the upper dantian.
Stand relaxed with
your eyes closed.
Use your middle finger to probe
the area between your eyebrows
to find the mid-brow point.
Feel the energy from your
finger awaken the mid-brow point
like the flame of one
candle lighting another.
Now, let go of your finger,
and feel the energy sensation
growing brighter, and brighter,
and moving further and further
back, illuminating
the upper dantian
in the center of your head.
Press your palms
against your temples,
and concentrate the energies in
your head into a shining pearl.
Quickly let go of your hands,
and create an instant chi ball.
Allow the pearl to
pop out from your head
into the center of the chi ball.
Feel it, suspend it there.
Squeeze and release the chi
ball to charge the pearl
with more energy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Feel the essence of your wisdom
shining brightly inside the chi
ball.
Imagine there is an
energy stream connecting
the upper dantian and the pearl.
Move your right hand
slightly, and push
the pearl towards
your left palm.
And begin to circulate
the pearl horizontally
at a comfortable speed.
Feel the movement sensation
mirrored in upper dantian.
Now, reverse directions.
Now, ciruclate the
pearl vertically.
Remember to feel the
connection between the pearl
and the upper dantain.
>>LISA: OK, the videos
are so beautiful,
I want to show some more them.
The next one is the "Empowering
the Central Meridian."
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: Tell me a little
bit about this one.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, the central meridian,
just now I explain,
it's playing, actually,
quite important role
to balance our energy.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: We don't want
to be one powerful here,
and the other one weak,
like we're wobbly.
So the central meridian, one
is harmonize through energy
centers, and also it's connected
to the universal energy.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So, what do we
do is first you want
to fuse the energies inside
of you with three dantians.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
So, you pay attention to your
lower dantian-- that is like,
three fingers below, three
or four fingers below,
that is center here.
Imagine that vitality
chi, that energy,
form a pearl-- because this
is a breathing meditation.
So in inhale, you
bring that pearl up
to your middle dantian--
which is loving chi,
you have loving chi--
exhale, bring it back.
So now you begin to fuse loving
chi and vitality chi together.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>PENG: You can do a few, then--
>>LISA: And that empowers
the central meridian?
>>PENG: Central meridian with
different types of energy.
Then you begin to bring
it up, wisdom chis.
So wisdom chi and vitality
chi, inhale and exhale.
They're connected.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Then begin to bring--
inhale, both chi to wisdom,
exhale both wisdom
and love to vitality.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: So, after
nine times on each,
it is very powerful fusion
of your own human chi,
with vitality, love,
and wisdom in the pearl.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Then you begin to
integrate the universal chi--
inhale, you go out through
the center meridian,
to the universe, to the sky.
Then that pearl, exhale, you
bring it down all the way
through the central
meridian to deep Earth.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Up, and down.
>>LISA: And down.
We're going to see this
demonstrated in this video,
and do it along with us.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>PENG: Breathing empowerment
of the central meridian.
Stand relaxed with
your eyes closed.
Become aware of
your lower dantian
in the center of
your waist, and feel
the vitality chi stored there.
Inhale, and guide this energy
up along the central meridian
to the love chi stored
in your middle dantian.
Exhale and guide the love chi
down to your lower dantian.
Let's repeat.
Inhale vitality to your
love, and exhale love
to your vitality.
Inhale vitality up,
and exhale love down.
Continue at your own speed.
Now, become aware of the
vitality chi in your lower
dantian.
Inhale and guide this
energy up to the wisdom
chi stored in your
upper dantian.
Exhale, and guide wisdom chi
down to your lower dantian.
Let's repeat.
Inhale vitality to wisdom, and
exhale wisdom to your vitality.
Inhale vitality up, and
exhale, wisdom down.
Continue at your own speed.
>>LISA: OK, so
we're learning here
about how to use our energy,
how to use our life force.
You're actually able to change
the consistency of brandy
in order to make
it taste different.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: And I'm thinking you
could also use this with water,
if there's not a clean
water source around you.
Explain it.
Is that possible?
>>PENG: Oh yes, yes.
You know, in China, the
tap water is not drinkable;
it is not clean enough.
So we always buy the water.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Even now, my wife
and I still have
to have boiled water
instead of tap water.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: But many times,
we have the occasion
that we don't have bottled
water, only tap water,
in order to make it
energetically protect us,
I use this technique
when I'm drinking
tap water, which is
considered not drinkable.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Well, this is
like energy blessing.
You might have some friends,
they go to the church.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
Oh, yes.
>>PENG: And they
bring a souvenir,
and say, well this is blessed.
>>LISA: The holy water, yes.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Well, actually,
because we don't say it
in a religious way, that
is the blessed thing,
that is how you
bless the things.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: So each time, before I
start a meal, I put my hands--
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: I bless my chi
to the meal, I eat it.
So, definitely, of course,
you can do it with water,
with drinks, with--
>>LISA: Food.
>>PENG: --food, with
any other object--
souvenirs that you
can bless on that.
>>LISA: And you can actually
change the molecular structure
of the food and the water by
doing-- with this intention,
with this energy?
>>PENG: Yes, yes.
Through the palm,
there's a point here--
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: --if you
bend your fingers,
the middle finger
touch that place.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: It's not right in the
middle, slightly sideways.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: This is
a very big energy
point for collect energies.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: And for transform--
like, exert energies.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>PENG: So, you put the
chi palms over there,
like tap water.
We put chi over there
thinking the energy is
coming into the water and
making this water healing.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Yeah, healing--
>>LISA: Healing water--
>>PENG: Healing water.
>>LISA: Healing food,
so it's nourishing.
>>PENG: Yeah, you
can be more specific.
One thing we do a lot--
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PENG: --in China
we-- like this.
Because in China, we like
fish, but whole fish.
It doesn't matter
how small, how big.
>>LISA: Right.
>>PENG: We want to
have the whole fish.
Fillet for us is like--
>>LISA: What is that?
>>PENG: --what is that?
We want to have bones, yeah.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: Then it's
more like tasty.
But the problem is sometimes
it gets stuck-- especially boys
or girls when they're
small-- but it gets stuck.
And many people, they say, well,
you can swallow rice, and press
it down, or you drink vinegar.
Sometimes help, sometimes not.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>PENG: A good
one, healing water.
So, I use the sword finger--
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>PENG: --to make the
chi more energized.
And when I put
the energy inside,
I think this energy
I put in the water is
going to melt the bones.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>PENG: Then seal it to
make it-- energy camp there.
Three gulps, un, un, three.
>>LISA: And then you
can dissolve the bone?
>>PENG: It dissolve.
It fine.
Otherwise they have to
go to hospital, surgery.
>>LISA: Wow.
Oh my goodness.
From now on, I am going to
bless every meal, every drink,
and change the
structure of the food
so that it's more
nourishing from my body.
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: And put
intentions into it.
>>PENG: Mhm.
>>LISA: I'm definitely
going to do that.
Can you use this
for something where
you want to stop a bad habit?
>>PENG: Yes, yes.
One thing we do
when I was in China,
because we have a lot
of chain smoker, yeah--
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Well, of course,
this is not-- I don't view it
as a way to quit
smoking, but it did
happen with some of my friends,
to help them to quit smoking.
Because sometimes they
take cigarette and say,
I hate to smoke.
>>LISA: So, it's
just a habit, yeah.
>>PENG: Yeah.
But--
>>LISA: It takes over.
>>PENG: Can you help me?
I say, I don't know whether
I can help, let me try.
Give me a pack.
So he gives me a
pack, I hold the pack.
Instead of blessing to make it
taste beautiful, or healing,
I tried to draw all that kind
of horrible taste, bitter,
you know, smells terrible.
Bring the chi there, and say--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>PENG: OK, try.
>>LISA: Oh!
>>PENG: Yeah.
At first, they thought, eh, OK.
But when they light it up, that
first puff, oh my god, that's
horrible, and throw it away.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>PENG: Yeah.
It did happen to some
people, because the shock was
so strong, and they didn't
understand when they picked up
the cigarette, the association
made them feel sick.
>>LISA: Was stronger than--
>>PENG: Than--
>>LISA: --they had it.
>>PENG: Yeah, they found
it, and they stopped.
>>LISA: That just shows
the power of energy.
That's really amazing.
That's really beautiful.
All right, this next video
is a seated meditation,
and you can really look at
the energy of this video.
Take a look.
>>PENG: This is
a meditation that
helps us awaken divine
love and compassion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Lotus Meditation.
Find a comfortable position,
sitting cross-legged,
or on a chair, or standing
up, or simply lying down.
Have your spine and
the back of your neck
stretched comfortably straight,
mouth relaxed, and lower jaw
slightly dropped.
The tip of your tongue
is resting gently
on the roof of your mouth
as your eyes close softly.
Put your hands on your lap,
near your lower abdomen.
Arms facing upwards,
fingers of one
hand on top of the fingers of
the other, thumb tips together.
Relax your eyebrows.
Smile, and listen to a sound
coming from far, far away.
Part your thumbs, and
gently rejoin them.
When you breathe
in, pay attention
to the air entering your nose.
When you breathe out,
softly chant, "Om, ah, om,"
and observe the vibrations that
chanting makes in your body.
[BELL RINGING]
[CHANTING OM, AH, OM]
Repeat this chant.
>>LISA: All right, we've
had such a great time
watching the videos and
the energy in the videos.
We're in the middle of the Rocky
Mountains; let's go outside
and maybe you could teach
me a little bit of qigong.
>>PENG: My pleasure.
>>LISA: Let's do this.
All right, let's go.
All right, we had
to come outside
into this backdrop of these
beautiful Rocky Mountains.
And Robert Peng is going to take
me through a qigong exercise.
So feel free to
follow along at home.
>>PENG: OK, now, stand a
little bit wide, like about one
and 1/2 feet wide.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Good.
Now you follow my
instructions and my movement.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>PENG: Inhale,
raise your hands.
Exhale, turn your palms.
Inhale, embrace the
energy in the universe.
Exhale, lower the hands,
empower your deep energy center.
Let's repeat.
Raise your hands, exhale.
Inhale, exhale.
>>LISA: The clouds
are so beautiful.
This is just beautiful.
>>PENG: Yeah.
Inhale, raise your hands,
raising all the way
to the horizon.
Huge turn, raise the
mountain of the chi,
pouring on yourself to nourish
your upper, middle, lower
energy center.
Inhale, huge turn.
Mountains of the
chi, raising up.
Exhale, lower in,
and empower yourself.
We do one-- two more.
Inhale, huge
mountains of the chi.
Raise the chi, empower yourself.
Wisdom, love, vitality.
>>LISA: Life force.
>>PENG: Now, inhale
in front of your body.
And exhale, move down, like
you're stroking the waterfall
with the back of
your hands, stroking
the waterfall with your palms.
Stroking up, inhale.
Stroking down.
Stroking the waterfall,
stroking down.
It is helpful to put
your hands together.
Good.
Then, you stretch
your left hand.
Palms pointing up.
Arm along the horizon,
and look to the front.
Tensed, and relax.
Good.
>>LISA: So tense your hand?
>>PENG: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: Inhale,
right hand, like push
the mountain-- push
the mountain away.
Look at your left.
Then keep moving palm
along the horizon.
Move to the front, and relax.
That's basically what we do.
>>LISA: OK.
>>PENG: It's doing
it a few times.
Inhale, push the mountain.
Beautiful, you did well.
Horizon, look back.
>>LISA: Mm.
>>PENG: Excellent.
Relax.
>>LISA: So, this is a--
>>PENG: It feels hot.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>PENG: Back and forth, open up.
Push the mountain.
Move along the horizon.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>PENG: And relax.
>>LISA: I couldn't
help but watching you.
You have such a
master of energy.
>>PENG: Inhale--
>>LISA: It's wonderful.
>>PENG: Thank you.
Push the mountain.
Move along the horizon.
Relax.
We do another two,
left and right.
Inhale, push the mountain
along the horizon.
So you feel your
arms, and shoulders,
and shoulder blades
pulled, and relax.
Inhale, push the mountain.
Along the horizon, relax.
>>LISA: You have such a mastery
of energy, it's impressive.
And thank you for
sharing that with us.
>>PENG: Thank you very much.
>>LISA: And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Robert Peng-- and you
can do the exercises again
and again-- you can
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]